# Archive

This is a repo for dumping notes & homework, released under CC-BY-NC-SA 4.0. 

PDF is usually compiled using `xelatex` & `biber`. However, if there are Feynman diagrams created with `tikz-feynman`, then it should be compiled with `lualatex`. The LaTeX engine to use is specified with a _magic comment_, e.g.
```latex
% !TeX TS-program = lualatex
```

PDFs are generated by Github actions & workflows; for implementations, see `.github/`. 

## AdvancedQFT2020 `advqft`

Advanced Quantum Field Theory, Spring 2020, by Prof. Wenbin Yan & Prof. Dan Xie @ Tsinghua. 

**Contents**:
1. Noether's theorem & Poincare algebra;
2. Finite gauge transformation & Chern-Simons form, Faddeev-Popov quantization for particles & strings;
3. BRST transformation in Yang-Mills theory, and BRST quantization of point particle.

### `gauge`

A non-technical note on the geometry of gauge theory, including bundles and connection, with discussions about tetrad formalism and spin connection in gravity. 

## ThermalFieldTheory2020 `thermal`

Finite Temperature Field Theory, Spring 2020, by Prof. Lian-Yi He @ Tsinghua

**Contents**:
1. Thermal propagator of free theory, from path integral;
2. Pure QED partition function in covariant gauge, with Faddeev-Popov quantization & mode expansions;
3. QCD partition function from Feynman diagrams, with tricks to compute Matsubara sums;
4. Ward identity with hard thermal loop (HTL), decomposition of transverse self-energy using projections, and HTL in QCD;
5. Correlations of Pauli spinors, using effective formalism & perturbative expansions, with full calculations of Matsubara sums & frequency integral; results expressed in spectral functions.

## SpinorGR `spinor`

An intuitive introduction of spin structure & spinor in general relativity (GR), with discussions of physical motivations, and a sketch of Witten's proof of the positive energy theorem. Written as the final paper for Differential Geometry, a course in Fall 2019 given by Prof. Hui Ma @ Tsinghua.

## AlgebraicTopology2020 `algtop`

Algebraic Topology, Spring 2020, by Prof. Si Li @ Tsinghua

Incomplete due to early withdrawn, but has some nice commutative diagrams.
